javascript - Preventing SQL injection in Node.js - Stack Overflow Skip to main content About Products For Teams Try new site Try BETA Stack Internal Implement a knowledge platform layer to power your enterprise and AI tools. Stack Data Licensing Get access to top-class technical expertise with trusted & attributed content. Stack Ads Connect your brand to the world’s most trusted technologist communities. Releases Keep up-to-date on features we add to Stack Overflow and Stack Internal. About the company Visit the blog s-popover#show" data-s-popover-placement="bottom-start" /> Loading… current community Stack Overflow help chat Meta Stack Overflow your communities Sign up or log in to customize your list. more stack exchange communities company blog Log in Sign up Home Questions AI Assist Tags Challenges Chat Articles Users Companies Collectives Communities for your favorite technologies. Explore all Collectives Stack Internal Stack Overflow for Teams is now called Stack Internal . Bring the best of human thought and AI automation together at your work. Try for free Learn more Stack Internal Bring the best of human thought and AI automation together at your work. Learn more Collectives™ on Stack Overflow Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most. Learn more about Collectives Stack Internal Knowledge at work Bring the best of human thought and AI automation together at your work. Explore Stack Internal Preventing SQL injection in Node.js Ask Question Asked 13 years ago Modified 4 years, 5 months ago Viewed 220k times 112 Is it possible to prevent SQL injections in Node.js (preferably with a module) in the same way that PHP had Prepared Statements that protected against them. If so, how? If not, what are some examples that might bypass the code I've provided (see below). Some Context: I'm making a web application with a back-end stack consisting of Node.js + MySql using the node-mysql module. From a usability perspective, the module is great, but it has not yet implemented something akin to PHP's Prepared Statements (though I'm aware it is on the todo ). From my understanding, PHP's implementation of prepared statements, among other things, helped greatly in the prevention of SQL injections. I'm worried, though, that my node.js app may be open to similar attacks, even with the string escaping provided by default (as in the code snippet below). node-mysql seems to be the most popular mysql connector for node.js, so I was wondering what other people might be doing (if anything) to account for this issue - or if it is even an issue with node.js to begin with (not sure how this wouldn't be, since user/client-side input is involved). Should I switch to node-mysql-native for the time being, since it does provide prepared statements? I'm hesitant to do this, because it does not seem to be as active as node-mysql (though that may just mean that it is complete). Here is a snippet of user registration code, which uses the sanitizer module, along with node-mysql's prepared statement-like syntax (which, as I mentioned above, does character escaping), to prevent cross site scripting and sql injections, respectively: // Prevent xss var clean_user = sanitizer.sanitize(username); // assume password is hashed already var post = {Username: clean_user, Password: hash}; // This just uses connection.escape() underneath var query = connection.query('INSERT INTO users SET ?', post, function(err, results) { // Can a Sql injection happen here? }); javascript mysql node.js sql-injection node-mysql Share Improve this question Follow edited May 23, 2017 at 12:34 Community Bot 1 1 1 silver badge asked Apr 3, 2013 at 3:55 funseiki 9,577 10 10 gold badges 41 41 silver badges 62 62 bronze badges Add a comment | 5 Answers 5 Sorted by: Reset to default Highest score (default) Trending (recent votes count more) Date modified (newest first) Date created (oldest first) 69 The node-mysql library automatically performs escaping when used as you are already doing. See https://github.com/felixge/node-mysql#escaping-query-values Share Improve this answer Follow answered Apr 3, 2013 at 4:24 Michael Pratt 3,506 1 1 gold badge 19 19 silver badges 31 31 bronze badges Sign up to request clarification or add additional context in comments. 3 Comments Add a comment Yousaf Yousaf Over a year ago Caution These methods of escaping values only works when the NO_BACKSLASH_ESCAPES SQL mode is disabled (which is the default state for MySQL servers) => source is node-MySQL itself. They have preparing method as well which is much cleaner and secure. github.com/mysqljs/mysql#preparing-queries 2017-11-23T20:15:37.3Z+00:00 1 Reply Copy link Joel Coehoorn Joel Coehoorn Over a year ago "They have a preparing method as well which is much cleaner and secure". In other words: This answer is wrong! Don't do it this way! 2024-07-03T16:41:51.03Z+00:00 0 Reply Copy link Michael Pratt Michael Pratt Over a year ago So, to necro my own answer from over a decade ago - The link above references the exact same section of the node-mysql documentation, and is subject to the exact same warning. It also has a warning that the "Preparing Queries" method is not actual SQL prepared statements, and is just a convenient way to perform escaping. NO_BACKSLASH_ESCAPES would, based on my reading at least, break either escape method, but isn't typical SQL server config. TL;DR I haven't dug into the exact security of the module in ages, but the above comment doesn't seem to be any better than my original answer, anyway. 2024-07-18T21:50:19.923Z+00:00 0 Reply Copy link Add a comment 16 The library has a section in the readme about escaping. It's Javascript-native, so I do not suggest switching to node-mysql-native . The documentation states these guidelines for escaping: Edit: node-mysql-native is also a pure-Javascript solution. Numbers are left untouched Booleans are converted to true / false strings Date objects are converted to YYYY-mm-dd HH:ii:ss strings Buffers are converted to hex strings, e.g. X'0fa5' Strings are safely escaped Arrays are turned into list, e.g. ['a', 'b'] turns into 'a', 'b' Nested arrays are turned into grouped lists (for bulk inserts), e.g. [['a', 'b'], ['c', 'd']] turns into ('a', 'b'), ('c', 'd') Objects are turned into key = 'val' pairs. Nested objects are cast to strings. undefined / null are converted to NULL NaN / Infinity are left as-is. MySQL does not support these, and trying to insert them as values will trigger MySQL errors until they implement support. This allows for you to do things like so: var userId = 5; var query = connection.query('SELECT * FROM users WHERE id = ?', [userId], function(err, results) { //query.sql returns SELECT * FROM users WHERE id = '5' }); As well as this: var post = {id: 1, title: 'Hello MySQL'}; var query = connection.query('INSERT INTO posts SET ?', post, function(err, result) { //query.sql returns INSERT INTO posts SET `id` = 1, `title` = 'Hello MySQL' }); Aside from those functions, you can also use the escape functions: connection.escape(query); mysql.escape(query); To escape query identifiers: mysql.escapeId(identifier); And as a response to your comment on prepared statements: From a usability perspective, the module is great, but it has not yet implemented something akin to PHP's Prepared Statements. The prepared statements are on the todo list for this connector, but this module at least allows you to specify custom formats that can be very similar to prepared statements. Here's an example from the readme: connection.config.queryFormat = function (query, values) { if (!values) return query; return query.replace(/\:(\w+)/g, function (txt, key) { if (values.hasOwnProperty(key)) { return this.escape(values[key]); } return txt; }.bind(this)); }; This changes the query format of the connection so you can use queries like this: connection.query("UPDATE posts SET title = :title", { title: "Hello MySQL" }); //equivalent to connection.query("UPDATE posts SET title = " + mysql.escape("Hello MySQL"); Share Improve this answer Follow edited Apr 3, 2013 at 14:16 answered Apr 3, 2013 at 5:50 hexacyanide 92.5k 31 31 gold badges 168 168 silver badges 162 162 bronze badges 6 Comments Add a comment funseiki funseiki Over a year ago Thank you for the response - I'm aware of the prepared-like style. Underneath, though, the characters are being escaped. See: "However, it really just uses the same connection.escape()" . As far as not using node-mysql-native: this is what I'm struggling with. If node-mysql-native implements prepared statements and its implementations prevents SQL injections, shouldn't I make the switch until node-mysql has them? 2013-04-03T10:25:05.56Z+00:00 0 Reply Copy link Andrey Sidorov Andrey Sidorov Over a year ago It's sort of chicken-and-egg question. I'm not actively developing my driver because most people use @felixge's I'll probably try to find some time to port prepared statements to node-mysql as it indeed gives some performance benefits (and potentially makes sql injections harder). Feel free to comment/post issues if you decide to give it a go 2013-04-03T14:17:37.627Z+00:00 0 Reply Copy link hexacyanide hexacyanide Over a year ago @funseiki I'm sure prepared statements would be the best solution, but I'm very sure that the escaping will prevent SQL injections. Since the module itself is supported by Joyent, the module is active and evidently thoroughly checked. If this module wasn't ready for production, then I don't think the module would have an average of 1000 downloads/day last month. Note that node-mysql-native is 6 months since it was last developed, and node-mysql is very active, with multiple people working on it. 2013-04-03T14:22:33.753Z+00:00 1 Reply Copy link funseiki funseiki Over a year ago @AndreySidorov Thanks for the comment - if I do attempt to tackle it, I'll post an update. I don't think it'll be anytime soon, though, since it doesn't seem like it'll be an easy beast to handle (will require more research than I currently have time for). Also thanks for making that driver - you guys are the reason Node.js makes it easy to get apps running quickly 2013-04-03T15:13:47.297Z+00:00 0 Reply Copy link funseiki funseiki Over a year ago @hexacyanide Because node-mysql is so popular, I was hoping I could get a response from members of the community regarding security issues they may have encountered (or prevented) as well as a convincing argument as to why the current character escape approach is secure enough for their code. 2013-04-03T15:16:41.483Z+00:00 0 Reply Copy link Add a comment | Show 1 more comment 12 In regards to testing if a module you are utilizing is secure or not there are several routes you can take. I will touch on the pros/cons of each so you can make a more informed decision. Currently, there aren't any vulnerabilities for the module you are utilizing, however, this can often lead to a false sense of security as there very well could be a vulnerability currently exploiting the module/software package you are using and you wouldn't be alerted to a problem until the vendor applies a fix/patch. To keep abreast of vulnerabilities you will need to follow mailing lists, forums, IRC & other hacking related discussions. PRO: You can often times you will become aware of potential problems within a library before a vendor has been alerted or has issued a fix/patch to remedy the potential avenue of attack on their software. CON: This can be very time consuming and resource intensive. If you do go this route a bot using RSS feeds, log parsing (IRC chat logs) and or a web scraper using key phrases (in this case node-mysql-native) and notifications can help reduce time spent trolling these resources. Create a fuzzer, use a fuzzer or other vulnerability framework such as metasploit , sqlMap etc. to help test for problems that the vendor may not have looked for. PRO: This can prove to be a sure fire method of ensuring to an acceptable level whether or not the module/software you are implementing is safe for public access. CON: This also becomes time consuming and costly. The other problem will stem from false positives as well as uneducated review of the results where a problem resides but is not noticed. Really security, and application security in general can be very time consuming and resource intensive. One thing managers will always use is a formula to determine the cost effectiveness (manpower, resources, time, pay etc) of performing the above two options. Anyways, I realize this is not a 'yes' or 'no' answer that may have been hoping for but I don't think anyone can give that to you until they perform an analysis of the software in question. Share Improve this answer Follow edited Jun 10, 2021 at 14:38 DisappointedByUnaccountableMod 6,854 4 4 gold badges 21 21 silver badges 23 23 bronze badges answered Dec 14, 2013 at 13:34 jas- 1,800 1 1 gold badge 18 18 silver badges 30 30 bronze badges Comments Add a comment 6 Mysql-native has been outdated so it became MySQL2 that is a new module created with the help of the original MySQL module's team. This module has more features and I think it has what you want as it has prepared statements(by using.execute()) like in PHP for more security. It's also very active(the last change was from 2-1 days) I didn't try it before but I think it's what you want and more. Share Improve this answer Follow edited Jan 29, 2021 at 2:00 Dharman ♦ 34k 27 27 gold badges 105 105 silver badges 156 156 bronze badges answered Aug 24, 2018 at 18:53 Boy pro 462 5 5 silver badges 21 21 bronze badges Comments Add a comment 0 Preventing SQL injections SQL injections is a common web hacking technique to destroy or misuse your database. To prevent SQL injections, you should use escape the values when query values are variables provided by the user. Escape query values by using the mysql.escape() method: var adr = 'Mountain 21'; var sql = 'SELECT * FROM customers WHERE address = ' + mysql.escape(adr); con.query(sql, function (err, result) { if (err) throw err; console.log(result); }); Escape query values by using the placeholder ? method: var adr = 'Mountain 21'; var sql = 'SELECT * FROM customers WHERE address = ?'; con.query(sql, [adr], function (err, result) { if (err) throw err; console.log(result); }); More Detail Share Improve this answer Follow answered Nov 7, 2021 at 16:11 Khabir 5,888 1 1 gold badge 26 26 silver badges 38 38 bronze badges 1 Comment Add a comment Joel Coehoorn Joel Coehoorn Over a year ago The first option is wrong . Only use placeholders, do not use the escape method. 2024-07-03T16:43:33.673Z+00:00 0 Reply Copy link Your Answer Thanks for contributing an answer to Stack Overflow! Please be sure to answer the question . Provide details and share your research! But avoid … Asking for help, clarification, or responding to other answers. Making statements based on opinion; back them up with references or personal experience. To learn more, see our tips on writing great answers . Draft saved Draft discarded Sign up or log in Sign up using Google Sign up using Email and Password Submit Post as a guest Name Email Required, but never shown Post Your Answer Discard By clicking “Post Your Answer”, you agree to our terms of service and acknowledge you have read our privacy policy . Start asking to get answers Find the answer to your question by asking. Ask question Explore related questions javascript mysql node.js sql-injection node-mysql See similar questions with these tags. The Overflow Blog No country left behind with sovereign AI Human input needed: take our survey on AI agents Featured on Meta Retiring the beta site Policy: Generative AI (e.g., ChatGPT) is banned Visit chat Linked 0 Cannot read properties of undefined (reading 'forEach') when i use nodejs 798 SQL injection that gets around mysql_real_escape_string() 20 Node.js Synchronous queries with MySQL 1 How is 'Escaping query values' safe in sql? (Or why is it dangerous?) [SQL injection] 2 What are Best Practices for preventing SQL injection in node-mysql? 0 Node JS SQL prevent sql injection 2 Using Javascript variables in MYSQL queries 3 Does JSON.stringify a string protect against (My)SQL injection? 2 Using A While Loop With An SQL Request In NodeJS 2 Are the escape functions in the Node.js mysql package sufficient enough to securely query a mysql database (without the use of prepared statements)? See more linked questions Related 2 What are Best Practices for preventing SQL injection in node-mysql? 3 How can I prevent SQL injection with Node.JS? 5 Prevent SQL Injection in JavaScript / Node.js 0 Node JS SQL prevent sql injection 0 SQL injection in Node Mysql library 10 Prevent SQL Injection with Nodejs and Postgres 0 Preventing Nodejs MySQL SQL Injection 2 Avoid injection in SQL LIKE query in Node js 1 Preventing SQL Injection from node.js using mysql driver with multipleStatements: true 0 Node.js: Preventing SQL Queries from SQL Injections Hot Network Questions Can the new legislative supermajority in Hungary get rid of president Sulyok before his term ends, even if he doesn't voluntarily resign? Are there currently any (realistic) proposals using von Neumann machines? DC/DC minimum load TPS5430 Powering 1920s era spacecraft/stations Derived projection formula holds for qcqs scheme Golf Numerical Representations in Compressed Barbrack Does God remove the priesthood from the line of Aaron in 1 Samuel 2:30? How to appropriately thank your admins Can a character work on multiple crafting projects at the same time? Is there any construct valid since C++98 that behaves differently between C++20 and C++23? Does oestrogen in Western tap water cause earlier puberty? If works do not contribute to salvation, how should Christians understand Jesus’ statement about “those who have done good”? Messed up outdoor handrail install, can it be salvaged in any way? Is it considered abuse when a parent demands that a young child give him a hug? Combining <= and >= in the same QGIS expression What does "Studiously weekend clothes" Mean? How to translate a "flake" to Spanish? Why does my Highlander Hybrid start and stop the engine multiple times rapidly at a traffic light at the bottom of a hill? Can "boil over" mean "go away" in American English? Using geologic map of Texas with full descriptions in QGIS A Nude in the Clouds? An elementary proof that free groups have the unique root property What does "dollying" mean in this context? Subtlety in Schrödinger vs Heisenberg picture more hot questions Question feed Subscribe to RSS Question feed To subscribe to this RSS feed, copy and paste this URL into your RSS reader. default Stack Overflow Questions Help Chat Business Stack Internal Stack Data Licensing Stack Ads Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Terms of Service Contact Us cookie-settings#toggle" class="s-btn s-btn__link py4 js-gps-track -link" data-gps-track="footer.click({ location: 2, link: 38 })" data-consent-popup-loader="footer"> Your Privacy Choices Cookie Policy Stack Exchange Network Technology Culture & recreation Life & arts Science Professional Business API Data Blog Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Site design / logo © 2026 Stack Exchange Inc; user contributions licensed under CC BY-SA . rev 2026.4.16.42124
